\#### SER594: Project Proposal  
\#### "Precision Play: Innovating MLB Performance Analysis Through Data
Integration"  
\#### Anonymous  
\#### November 20,2024

**Keywords:** MLB Player Performance, Advanced Baseball Statistics,
External Factors in Sports Analysis

**Description:** This work is focused on evaluating the MLB player and
his performance metrics through the use of some modern statistic
measures which include the batting average, OBP, SLG, and WAR. It will
also consider the effects of other factors such as weather forces, home
and away games, and player injuries impact these performance metrics.
The objective is to identify relationships and dependencies that will
help explain the key factors to players' performance. The project will
create new knowledge by applying more traditional as well as advanced
metrics complemented by contextual factors; this will facilitate the
enhancement of the knowledge on the variables that may underpin the
player\'s performance in baseball.

**Intellectual Merit:** The project aims to advance scientific knowledge
by integrating multiple layers of data to explore new relationships
between performance metrics and external factors. Thus, the project aims
at identifying the unknown relationships between the internal and
external factors that cannot be identified when using the solo variables
of the already established advanced statistics. In fact, it can help
provide fresh innovation approaches to the evaluation of the player
which in turn could be significant in enhancing the player's performance
among sports teams or analysts of different teams.  
  
**Data Sourcing:** Data will be collected from publicly available MLB
statistics websites such as Baseball-Reference and FanGraphs for player
performance metrics. External factors will be sourced from weather APIs
(e.g., Weatherstack or OpenWeatherMap) for historical weather data and
sports news sites for injury reports. The dataset will include recent
data from the year 2024 to ensure relevance and timeliness.  
  
**Background Knowledge:**

1.**"The Baseball Encyclopedia: The Complete and Definitive History of
Major League Baseball"** - This book provides a comprehensive overview
of baseball history and player statistics.

2.**"Baseball on the Border: A Tale of Two Lations" by Robert C.
Smith** - Offers insights into the cultural and external factors
influencing baseball performance.

3.**"The Sabermetric Revolution: Assessing the Growth of Analytics in
Baseball"** - Discusses the evolution of advanced baseball statistics
and their impact on performance analysis.

**Related Work:**

1.**"A Comprehensive Study of Major League Baseball Performance Metrics:
Analyzing the Effectiveness of Advanced Statistics"** - This paper
evaluates various advanced metrics and their effectiveness in predicting
player performance.

2.**"The Impact of Environmental Factors on Player Performance in
Professional Sports"** - Analyzes how external factors like weather and
venue conditions affect player performance in sports.
